Hopefully now you've managed to
change the symbology of the land
cover raster and it looks
something a little bit like
this.
So we can see in our contents
pane we have the boxes of
different colours and we've got
the labels next to each box
telling us what land cover type
it is.
So now let's go ahead and add
the vector data layers on top.
Our map is starting to take
shape here, so let's get it
ready to be exported.
So when you're working on a
project in Arcgis Pro and you
want to get a map ready to
export or print, we need to
create a layout.
So to do this you want to go
into the Insert tab and click on
New Layout.
This is going to bring up some
page size options and so we're
going to go with A4 portrait and
now we have our blank page to
add our map onto.
So to add our map we want to go
into insert and then click on
Map frame.
Now we can choose the map that
we want and this will give our
mouse the tool to draw it onto
our page.
So draw a box wherever you like
and now you have your map in
your layout page.
You can resize it to how you
want and also move it around the
page.
But don't worry too much if the
actual view that you have of
your map isn't in exactly the
right place, as we're going to
be going over how to change
this.
And at this point you might have
noticed that now we're in a
layout view, some of the buttons
within the main ribbon pane have
changed.
And so we're going to go over
what new buttons we have and
what they can do.
So if we clicked back on our
map, we can see that the buttons
changed back to how they were.
So we need to be within the
layout view to access the layout
buttons.
The first thing we're going to
take a look at is this layout
tab that we now have where we
normally have the map tab and so
the first new section we can see
is Navigate and in navigate we
can use these buttons to move
around the layout page.
So if we clicked on the navigate
button we can now move our
layout page around and the other
buttons we have here are for
different zoom options.
The next section we have is
Elements and in elements we have
select tools to select our map
frame and also the other
elements that we add onto our
layout.
in page set up we could change
our layout page to be portrait
or landscape and we also have
options to change the size of
our page and then in show we
have toggle boxes to turn rulers
and guides on or off.
The guides help us align things
in the layout and the rulers are
the measurements that you can
see around the sides of the
layout page.
The next thing we're going to
take a look at is activating our
map frame.
And so what this means is we can
turn on the map within our map
frame and use it as if we were
in the map view.
So if we click on the activate
button, we can now move inside
of our map frame and you can see
that the buttons at the top have
changed as if we're in map view
again.
And so we can also access these
map buttons.
So move your map to how you want
and once you're happy with it,
we can close the activation.
So to do that, we're going to go
to the Layout button at the top
and then hit close activation.
And now we've covered most of
the buttons in the Layout tab,
so we'll go and look at what has
changed within the Insert tab.
The Project section has stayed
the same, so we don't need to
worry about that.
But here we now have a section
on map frames and this is where
we went to add our map frame in
initially.
So you could also add a map
frame of a different shape by
clicking here and by clicking on
grid we can add grid lines to
our map.
So we're going to choose the
first one here and now we have
grid lines showing the longitude
and latitude on our map. In map
frames
we've also got a button on map
series as well.
If you wanted to change the grid
lines that we added and set it
to your preferences, then you
can right click on the grids in
your contents pane and then
click on properties and this
will bring up the element pane
where you can set your
preferences for your grid lines.
Within the Insert tab
here we also now have map
surrounds and so this is where
you can add some really useful
things onto your map.
So the first thing we're going
to take a look at is adding a
north arrow.
This isn't normally necessary if
your map is already orientated
north but we're going to take a
look at how to do it anyway.
So you would click on the button
and now you can choose which
north arrow you want to add.
I'm going to choose this one
here and then you can draw it on
to your map and resize it to how
you want.
And again, just like the grids,
you can go into your contents
pane, right click on the north
arrow you just added and go on
properties
if you want to change it to suit
your preferences more. We're
going to take a look at adding a
scale bar.
So we click on the scale bar
button and then we can choose
which scale we want to add, and
then we're going to draw it onto
our map.
And again, you can resize it or
move it to where you want.
You can also right click on your
scale bar in the contents and go
to the properties. In map
surrounds
we can also add a legend, a
chart frame or a table.
And then we also have a graphics
and text section in the Insert
tab so we can add in graphics
and text onto our map.
And that's most of the important
buttons that we now have within
layout view.
An important note just to say
here, you can access your layout
within your catalog.
This is really useful if you
accidentally shut your layout in
your project, then you can still
access it in your catalog and
you can open it back up.
So now have a go at creating
your own layout and playing
around with some of the buttons
that you have access to in
layout view.